Project 1: Interview Questions

Domain: Logging and Monitoring
Question 2: Challenges of Collecting Large Amounts of Log Data

What are the challenges of collecting huge amounts of log data? How do security analysts deal with them?

1.	Restate the Problem
a.	How do security analysts deal with collecting huge amounts of data.

2.	Provide a Concrete Example Scenario

	In Project 1, when did you deal with log data?
o	I dealt with log data on day 3 of the project when we were running certain tests on our VMs. First, I tried to login incorrectly from my JumpBox to my VMs without using a container. This caused a lot of log entries for denied connection. Next, I caused my CPU stress using the stress command. This generated logs and metrics for CPU usage. Finally, I ran a high amount of web requests to my servers. I did this to make sure that Kibana was correctly monitoring and logging this data.

	What kind(s) of data did you investigate?
o	I investigated logs and metrics.
 
	How much data were you dealing with?
o	In comparison to what data analysts are dealing with it was nothing. However, I was looking over the data from 2 virtual machines. 

	What were you looking for?
o	Specifically, CPU usage, memory usage, and streamed live logs looking for failed login attempts. 


3.	Explain the Solution Requirements

	What information did you need to find what you were looking for?
o	I was looking to see if I had put my VM under stress. I checked for this by looking at the metrics for CPU usage. 
o	I was looking to see if I could find failed login attempts for a failed SSH connection.
o	

	What does an analyst need to analyze large amounts of log data to find this information?
o	Analysts need to analyze large amounts of data so that they can know what is normal and what is abnormal. Every company has a different normal and abnormal.

	In Project 1, what tools did you use to analyze log data?
o	I used Kibana as a tool to analyze log and metric data.

4.	Explain the Solution Details

	How did you use these tools to find the log data? E.g., which charts, graphs, etc. were useful for parsing the logs?
o	

5.	Identify Advantages and Disadvantages of the Solution

	What kinds of data did you not inspect during Project 1?
o	I did not analyze the key performance indicators. This helps with determining how well the machine is performing. 

	Would having access to this additional data have changed your process or conclusions? If so, how?
o	This may have helped to confirm that my machine was connected, but it would not have changed my process or conclusions.
